How to Ensure the quality of software
Today’s software applications are mostly cloud based applications or web based applications which make it extremely 
challenging for software test practitioners to design and execute a set of tests adhering to multiple aspects of quality 
and stand ahead in the competition.

Functional testing is the technical process of software testing practice and is categorized under Black Box testing, 
where the code structure is unknown to the user and is used to recognize the correctness and completeness of features 
developed in a computer software. In a pessimistic view, it is a process of attempting to detect the discrepancies of 
the real behavior of the coded feature against the specifications. It is one of the prime and vital ingredients of the 
software testing levels being performed, whose sole purpose is to ensure that customers or end-users receive workable 
features.

It's so important part of testing so that I want to give some suggestions about functional testing. 
Here's are Six types of functional testing can be used to ensure the quality of the end product.

Ensure every line of code executes properly with Unit Testing. Unit testing is the process of testing each unit of code 
in a single component. This form of testing is carried out by the developer as the component is being developed. 
The developer is responsible for ensuring that each detail of the implementation is logically correct.
Ensure every function produces its expected outcome with Functional Testing.Functional testing addresses concerns 
surrounding the correct implementation of functional requirements. Commonly referred to as black box testing, 
this type of testing requires no knowledge of the underlying implementation.
Ensure all functions combine to deliver the desired business result with System Testing. System testing executes end-to-end
functional tests that cross software units, helping to realize the goal of ensuring that components combine to deliver the 
desired business result.
Ensure new changes did not adversely affect other parts of the system with Regression Testing. Regression testing ensures 
code modifications have not inadvertently introduced bugs into the system or changed existing functionality. 
Goals for regression testing should include plans from the original unit, as well as functional and system tests phases to 
demonstrate that existing functionality behaves as intended.
Ensure the system integrates with and does not adversely affect other enterprise systems with System Integration 
Testing. System integration testing is a process that assesses the software's interoperability and cooperation with 
other applications. Define testing goals that will exercise required communication. This is done using process flows 
that encapsulate the entire system.
Ensure the customer is satisfied with the system with Acceptance Testing. Acceptance testing aims to test how well 
sers interact with the system, that it does what they expect and is easy to use.
It's not enough to assure the quality that use functional testing only. Non-functional testing of Software involves
testing the Software from the requirements which are non functional in nature related but important a well such as 
performance, security, user interface etc. Some of the important and commonly used non-functional testing types are 
mentioned as follows:

Performance Testing. It is mostly used to identify any bottlenecks or performance issues rather than finding the bugs 
in software. Performance testing is considered as one of the important and mandatory testing type in aspect of speed, 
capacity, stablity, scalability.
Usability Testing. It is a black box technique and is used to identify any error(s) and improvements in the Software by
observing the users through their usage and operation.
Security Testing. Security testing involves the testing of Software in order to identify any flaws ad gaps from security
and vulnerability point of view.
Portability Testing. Portability testing includes the testing of Software with intend that it should be re-useable and 
can be moved from another Software as well.
